[Page 1]
DDeecceemmbbeerr 22002255

[Page 2]
Table of Contents
Rulebook released December 2025
Introduction ...........................3 Navigating the Realm .........12 Activating Abilities ............20
Using this Rulebook .................3 Tapping a Card........................20
Gameplay ....................................3 Squares ......................................12 Playing Sites .............................20
Areas of the Realm ..................12
How to Win ..................................3 The Void .....................................12
Decks ..............................................3 Sites ..............................................12 Move & Attack .........................21
Basic Abilities ............................21
The Four Elements .................4 Bodies of Water & Land ......12 Attacking the Enemy ............22
Cards ...........................................5 Surface & Subsurface ...........13 Defend .........................................24
Regions .......................................13 Intercept ....................................25
Card Types .................................5 Pick Up or Drop Artifacts ...25
The Golden Rule ..........................5
Building Your Own
LoLcoactaintigo nA .r..e..a...s.. .o...f. .t..h...e.. . .............14 Decks .........................................26
Avatars ............................................5 Re A a d l j m ac .. e .. n ... t . . a ... n .. d ... . N ... e ... a .. r .. b ... y .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 4 4 Advanced Concepts ..............27
Si M te i s n . i .. o .. n ... s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 7 Adjacent and Nearby
Spells ................................................7 Locations ...................................15
Artifacts ........................................8
Steps ...........................................15 Special Abilities ........................27
Auras ..............................................9
Turn Summary ........................16 Advanced Movement
Magics ............................................9
Concepts ......................................28
1. Start Phase ...........................16
Game Zones ..............................10
Damage Grids ............................29
2. Main Phase ...........................16
Occupying Multiple Sites ......29
3. End Phase .............................16
Ownership and Control .........30
The Realm ...................................10 Casting Spells ........................17
Projectiles ...................................30
Atlas and Spellbook Decks ...10 Mana ...........................................17
Static/Ongoing Effects ...........30
Cemetery .....................................10 Elemental Threshold ............18 Glossary of Terms and
Setup ..........................................11
Hand ..............................................10 Casting Minions ......................19
KeTyhwe Sotrodrysl .i..n..e.. .......................................................3321
Winning the Game ................11
Casting Artifacts .....................19 Quick Reference Guide .......36
Casting Auras ...........................19
Death’s Door & Casting Magics ........................19
Common Keyword
Death Blow .................................11
Abilities ........................................37
- 2 -

[Page 3]
Introduction
In the unfathomable depths of the infinite void, great beings vie for control of fantastical realms, where
powerful magic imbues every living thing, and even the land itself. Take on the role of a powerful Avatar in
one of these realms, and tap into the arcane energies of the four elements—Air, Earth, Fire, and Water—
to summon mythical beasts, conjure ancient artifacts, and cast an array of powerful spells beyond all
Using this Rulebook
imagining. Will you claim dominion over this contested realm?
Sorcery:
Contested Realm
Twhwew g.osoalr coefr ythtcisg .rcuolmeb/ohookw i-st ot-op lgaeyt you up to speed and ready to play your first games of
. For new players, carry on from here, have someone guide you through a game, or visit
where you’ll find tutorial videos and more. For experienced players,
this rulebook will handle most of your queries, but you can also explore the Codex (curiosa.io/codex) for
even more detail.
bolded
The game uses terms and keywords that are important to know. When these come up, they have been
to not only help you identify important words and concepts, but to also tell you that you can find
Gmorea inmformeatiopn albaouty that word in the glossary, starting on page 32.
Sorcery: Contested Realm realm
In a game of , you interact with the as a powerful Avatar. You will have a
spellbook, a deck of cards that will allow you to cast spells that summon minions, conjure artifacts, and
more. You will also have access to your atlas, a deck of cards that allow you to add wondrous sites to the
How to Win
play area that both expand your domain and empower you to cast even more devastating spells.
realm
life
Avatars are sumdmeoanthe’ds tdoo ao rcontested with one godaela: ttho bvalonwquish their opponents and claim sole
dominion. In order to win, you must defeat any opposing Avatar by first reducing their total to zero,
placing them at , and then delivering a final to the weakened Avatar. This severs
Decks
the enemy’s connection to the realm and grants you victory!
For your first few Sgoamrceersy, you might want to use preconstructed decks, which will get you straight into the
action. Or you can craft your own decks, balancing and tuning their powers to fit your play style (see page
26). The world of grants you endless possibilities!
- 3 -

[Page 4]
The Four Elements
Sorcery: Contested Realm
is built around the four classical elements: Air, Earth, Fire, and Water. Most
spells in a spellbook are tied to these elements, giving Avatars the power to manipulate the magic of the
realms. Each element has strengths and weaknesses. Certain abilities can be common in one element
Air
yet very rare in another. The four elements and their characteristics are:
Knowledge and Power,
Air is the element of dabbling in forces beyond mortal control to
acquire the magical means to respond to any battlefield situation. An attunement with air
grants you both mobility and tactical options thanks to its ability to teleport units around
Ethea reralmt ahnd to increase its available spells.
Enduring Strength,
Earth is the element of defined by its focus on fielding and enhancing
martial forces throughout the realm. An attunement with earth grants you the ability to
affect your atlas and minions that can dominate the battle through teamwork and sheer
Ffigihtringe power.
Desire and Destruction,
Fire is the element of willing to do whatever it takes to secure victory
in the realm. An attunement with fire grants you an array of explosive spells and abilities
tWhat acatn cererate bursts of speed or burn friend and foe alike in great gouts of flame.
Charm and Trickery,
Water is the element of ready to adapt and disrupt the strategies of the
enemy as it manipulates all. An attunement with water grants you a powerful homefield
advantage that will slowly engulf the realm and the ability to position the enemy right
where you want them.
- 4 -

[Page 5]
Cards
Sorcery: Contested Realm
In , your cards are what allow you to influence the realm and do battle with
your opponent. Some cards will bend or even break the rules in this rulebook, in these cases the card’s
text takes precedence. Before we dig into how cards function in detail, it is important to keep one key
The Golden Rule
rule in mind at all times:
Some text is intentionally informal or necessarily compact. Use common sense and be cool.
Card Types
There are three main categories of cards: Avatars, sites, and spells. Spells further break down into four
cAarvd tayptesa: mrinsion, artifact, aura, and magic. The followin 1 g pages will describe each type.
Your Avatar represents you and your connection
2
to the realm. Though but a pale echo of your true
3
might, everything you do within the realm is
done through your Avatar. Avatars have some key
characteristics:
• Each Avatar has a name .
• Avatars have a starting life , which will
rise and fall during the game and tells you
how much the Avatar can endure before being
placed at death’s door. This is also the Avatar’s
maximum life, which cannot be exceeded.
• Avatars also have an attack power rating
that tells you how hard they hit in combat.
• Avatars have a game text box that 4
Spellcasters
describes their special abilities.
All Avatars are , which means they
can cast spells, most often from your hand.
Finally, Avatars can never enter a region other than
the surface and ignore many negative effects.
Units
A unit is a collective term that includes both Avatars and minions. Some cards might specify one of
these types of units, but most affect units in general.
- 5 -

[Page 6]
Sites
A site is a locus of power within the
realm that you may explore and exploit.
Sites are usually played by activating
your Avatar’s ability, though they may
enter the realm in other ways.
You and your opponent can also attack
each other’s sites to cause your Avatars 1 2
to lose life, so make sure to defend
yours. 3
4
Sites have some key characteristics:
• Sites have a name .
• Sites have a typeline that
describes key things about that
card, such as rarity.
• Most sites have elemental symbols that increase your elemental affinity , which you will harness
to use spells and abilities (see page 18).
mana
• Sites have a game text box that describes their special abilities.
• Sites will provide you with , an important resource that you will need to play cards and use
surface subsurface
abilities during your turn (see page 17).
Rub• bSlietes have two levels: and (see page 13).
void land
When a site is destroyed it is placed in its owner’s cemetery as normal, but rather than creating a new
, the site is instead replaced with rubble. Rubble is a neutral site that no player controls, and
Note: You can use tokens or a face down site to represent rubble on a square.
provides no mana or threshold.
- 6 -

[Page 7]
Spells
Spells represent all of the magical might you are able to bring to bear on this realm. These include
minions to help you defend your lands and attack the enemy, powerful artifacts that will help you tip the
balance of power, magics of channeled energy that will overpower foes, and auras of lasting elemental
1
mMaignic itoo inmspose your will on areas of the realm.
Minions are your greatest allies, assisting you with
2 4
myriad unique abilities in offense and defense.
Minions have a few key characteristics on their
card: 3
mana
• Each minion has a name .
• Each minion has a cost that you
elemental threshold
must pay in order to play it.
• Minions have an
that your elemental affinity must meet in order
5
to be played.
• Minions dhaavme aag peower rating that reflects
how hard they hit in combat. It also describes
how much they cadnie tsa.ke before dying. 6
If the minion receives damage equal to or
greater than that value, it
• Minions have a type line that describes
key things about that card, such as subtypes
and rarity.
• Minions have a game text box that
describes their special abilities.
Token Minions
realm
Tokens are small-sized cards that work more or less the same as regular
cards while in the . The major drifefaerlmence between cards and tokens
is that tokens are never part of a player’s deck, and they can never formally
exist in any zone except within the . If a token would be placed
Note: You are free to use anything you want to represent tokens.
anywhere else, it is instead removed from the game entirely.
- 7 -

[Page 8]
Artifacts
1
Artifacts are various relics, edifices, tools, gear,
2
gadgets, devices, and baubles, often charged with
lasting enchantments by wizards of old. Artifacts
have some key characteristics on their card:
mana
• Each artifact has a name .
• Each artifact has a cost that you
must pay to play it.
• Artifacts have a type line that describes
key things about that card, such as subtypes
and rarity. 3
• Artifacts have a game text box that
Note:
describes their special abilities.
Unlike other spells, artifacts do not typically 4
rAerqtuiifraec atn S eulebmteynpteals threshold to play.
Artifacts have a variety of subtypes, including
armor, weapons, relics, devices, documents,
automatons, or monuments. While most artifacts
are standard objects that can be carried into battle,
others such as automatons and monuments have
some further characteristics and restrictions.
Automatons Monuments
5
Automatons are Monuments are an
artifacts that are artifact subtype that
minions. As such, cannot be carried.
they have a power
rating (5), have the
same basic abilities as
regular minions, and
cannot be carried like
regular artifacts.
- 8 -

[Page 9]
Auras
1
Auras are mostly incorporeal, but lasting,
2
manifestations of elemental power. They usually
impact a large area within the realm, conferring
boons or conditions within their reach.
3
Auras have some key characteristics on their card:
mana
• Each aura has a name .
• Each aura has a cost that you must
elemental threshold
pay in order to play it.
• Auras also have an
that your elemental affinity must meet in 4
order to be played.
• Auras have a type line that describes key
things about that card, such as rarity. 5
• Auras have a game text box that
describes their special abilities.
Magics 1
Magics are transient spells that have immediate
2
impact and then dissipate as soon as they resolve.
Magics have some key characteristics on their
card:
3
mana
• Each magic has a name .
• Each magic has a cost that you
elemental threshold
must pay in order to play it.
• Magics also have an
that your elemental affinity must meet in
order to be played. 4
• Magics have a type line that describes key
things about that card, such as rarity.
• Magics have a game text box that 5
describes their special abilities.
- 9 -

[Page 10]
Game Zones
Sorcery: Contested Realm realm
In , players share the main and biggest part of the play area—the .
HTowheveer , Reaceh palalyemr has their own decks, cemetery, and hand. These are the game’s main zones.
The revalomid is a 5x4 square grid where most cards
are played. These twenty squares begin as pieces
1
of the that you and your opponent may fill in
Awitth sliteas ass yaoun exdpan dS ypouer dlomlabinso. ok
Each player has two decks of cards—an atlas of at
least 30 site cards , containing maps to domains
waiting to be explored, and a spellbook of at
least 60 spell cards , filled with all of a player’s
accumulated magical knowledge. Players will draw
cards from these decks over the course of a game.
When it comes to these decks, keep a few things
in mind:
• The exact order of the cards in these decks is
unpredictable, thus whenever you search your
atlas or spellbook for a card, you must shuffle
2
it afterward.
3
• Some effects allow you to place or reorder
known cards on the bottoms or tops of decks.
CeAmftere dotineg sro, yyou do not shuffle it.
Each player has a cemetery which represents a
record of spent magic, dead minions, and broken
artifacts. Whenever any of your cards are discarded,
destroyed, resolved, or otherwise expired, place
them face-up in your cemetery.
Players may freely examine the contents of any
cemetery at any time and the order of the cards in 4
Ha ceamenterdy is irrelevant.
Cards drawn from your spellbook or atlas decks
are kept in your hand . Your hand should remain
hidden from your opponents, however the number
of atlas and spellbook cards you hold may be
observed and asked, due to the card backs being
distinguishable.
There is no maximum hand size and the order of
5
the cards in your hand is irrelevant.
- 10 -

[Page 11]
Setup
Sorcery
NoSwte thpa 1t y: oSue’rte U fapm tilhiaer Rweitah ltmhe components, followS ttheepse 4st:e Dpse ttoe sremt uipn ae t Fwior-sptl aPyelar ygeamre of .
realm
Clear some space in the middle of the table for Players may either decide who has the first turn,
tShtee p 2: P la.ce Avatars oSrt eopth 5er:w Disrea rwan Sdtoamrltyi nchgo Hosae nwdho goes first.
square
Players place their Avatars on the in the Each player draws three cards from their atlas
mStiedpdl e3 o: fP trheeipr abroett oDme rcokws . and three cards from their spellbook . If you’re
not satisfied with your initial hand, you may take
one mulligan.
Players shuffle and place their atlas and
To take a mulligan, return up to three cards from
spellbook decks nearby , leaving some space
your hand to the bottom of their respective decks
for their cemeteries .
in any order. Then redraw the same number of
cards you returned from each deck.
2
1
3
2
4
5
Winning the Game
death’s door death blow
The game ends when a player has vanquished all opposing Avatars, securing their hold on the realm! In
order to do this, you’ll need to get them to , then follow up with a .
Death’s Door & Death Blow
Alternatively, if either player attempts to draw a card from an empty deck, they immediately lose.
life
realm life death’s door
As an Avatar losliefse , from either taking damage directly or their sites being attacked, its connection
with the weakens. When an Avatar’s is reduced to 0, they are now at and can
no longer gain . At that moment, the wounded Avatar becomes immune to damage for the rest of
death blow
that turn.
After that brief and desperate window, any damage dealt to the Avatar is a , finally severing
their connection to the realm and signaling their defeat.
- 11 -

[Page 12]
Navigating the Realm
Sorcery: Contested Realm
In battles are often won or lost in the way you position and maneuver your
uAnirts. eThae fsoll oowifng ptaghes ewi lRl coevear hlowm to navigate both the square grid and the layers of the realm.
realm void
The is split into twenty squares. These squares begin as pieces of the that you and your
The Void
opponent may fill in with sites as you expand your domains.
region
Tbahne ivsohiedd is a of incorporeal nothingness on top of which you will build your physical domain.
AnVy omidinwiaolnk that somehow finds its way into the void (whether in whole or in part) is immediately
(removed from the game) unless it has an ability that specifically allows it to exist there (such
Sites
as ).
As you and your opponent expand your domains, you will replace void squares by playing site cards on
tWheamte. Trh aensed s Liteasn wdi lSl ifoterms up to create bodies of water and land for your units to traverse and conquer.
Water sites
land sites rubble
Sites can be separated into two main types. are identified by the water threshold icon (marked
wGirtho u p). Asl lo ofth Wer saittees arr e& co nLsaidnerded , including sites with no threshold icons and .
As sites are played, they will begin to
form bodies of water and spans of land. A
contiguous cluster of adjacent water sites
is known as a body of water. Similarly, a
contiguous cluster of adjacent land sites 1 4
forms a span of land. It is possible to have
more than one of each, or for the realm to
beF coorm expalemtepllye ,l tahned t owro w Saptreinr.g Rivers and the
Aqueduct form a body of water (1). Even
though the Aqueduct has a icon, it also
has a , so it is a water site.
3 2
The Autumn River is a separate, single-
site body of water (2), since only adjacent
sites are considered and not those placed
diagonally.
The Steppe and Dark Tower form a span
of land (3), and the Arid Desert is its own
single-site span of land (4).
- 12 -

[Page 13]
Surface & Subsurface of Sites
surface subsurface
Each site is made up of two levels, above and below the card. A site’s upper level is generally referred to
Tash tehe S urface and its lower one is the .
region
The upper level of all sites form a known as the surface. This is where units will typically move
aTnhde w Saugeb wsuarr foanc tehe enemy. All units above a site are considered to be on the surface.
regions land
site undergroundregion water site underwater
Trehgei osunbsurface is divided into two , depending on what type of site it is. The lower level of a
is part of dthiee . Similarly, the lower level of a , is part of the
. Existing in the subsurface is extremely hazardous and minions that somehow find their way there
Aimtmoped aiantedly U nd, eunrless otherwise allowed to do so with special abilities (see page 38).
atop
under
When cards enter a site’s surface level, place it the site to show that it is on the surface, or slide it
atop
the site to show that it occupies the subsurface.
under
If a card refers to something a site, it applies to something on the surface of the site, but not
anything below it. Similarly, if a card refers to something a site, it applies to something in the
Regions
subsurface of the site, but not anything above it.
Altogether, there are four regions in the game:
• void
• surface
• underground
Note: Most abilities from cards in the realm affect things within the region where the card is located. Similarly,
• underwater
in the case of spells, their affects typically apply to the same region as its Spellcaster. However, some cards can
effect specific areas, regions, or even the whole realm, regardless of the card’s own region.
For example:
The Porcupine Pufferfish (1)
occupies the Underwater region
under the site in its square.
2 5
The Headless Haunt (2) occupies
1
a square in the Void region.
The Cave Trolls (3) occupy the
Underground region under the
site in its square.
3
The Sea Serpent (4) and
Diluvian Kraken (5) occupy the
6 4
Surface region atop the sites in
their squares, as does the King of
the Realm (6) atop the site in his
square.
- 13 -

[Page 14]
Locating Areas of the Realm
Perhaps the single most important key concept to understand is how to identify areas in the realm
Location
relative to your card’s position.
location
AH ere and i sT dheefirneed as one region in one square.
location
location
“Here” and “There” are used to contelxotcuaatliloy nresfer to the (s) that a card occupies. For most cards,
such as avatars, minions, and artifacts, that means one . For most auras, it means the 2x2 area
tThaeryg oectciunpgy. For sites, it means two , their surface and subsurface.
Spellcaster’s
Sometimes you will need to target things in the realm. Spells and abilities can only target things within
Adjacent and Nearby
the or referencing card’s same region.
adjacent nearby
Adjacent:
Sometimes a card will need to identify something in an or square.
Nearby:
• Refers to the card’s own square, and the squares that it shares a border with.
• Refers to the card’s own square, and all squares that surround it, including those
diagonally.
These five squares are These nine squares are
adjacent to the card nearby the card
- 14 -

[Page 15]
Adjacent and Nearby Locations
locations region Spellcaster
locations
Only that are in the same as the referencing card (or its ) are considered
adjacent or nearby .
4 3
6
5
1 2
In this example, the King of the Realm is beset The Cave Trolls are not adjacent to the King
by enemies on nearly all sides! Some pose a greater because they are burrowed and are therefore
threat than others. Let’s take a closer look. in a different region. Similarly, the Porcupine
The King is adjacent to the Sea Serpent Pufferfish is not nearby the King because it is
because it is next to him on the surface of the site submerged.
and therefore in the same region. Similarly, the The Pufferfish and Cave Trolls are not adjacent
Diluvian Kraken is nearby the King. to each other as they are in different regions,
The King is not adjacent to the Headless Haunt underwater and underground, respectively.
because the Haunt is in the Void region. Similarly, the Pufferfish is not adjacent to the
Headless Haunt, nor are the Cave Trolls nearby
the Headless Haunt.
Steps
adjacentlocations
A step is the minimum unit of distance between two . Some card abilities will have
an effect that will happen a step away or even several steps away from where the card is or its origin
point. In these cases, it will say that it happens X steps away.
- 15 -

[Page 16]
Turn Summary
Sorcery: Contested Realm
is played over a series of turns. Players take their turns, one at a time, following
tShits saeqruetnce Pof phhaasess:e
The start phase is the first phase you complete during your turn. All abilities that last “Until next turn”
now end. Then:
mana
Step 1. All of your cards that are tapped now untap.
Step 2. All of your sites now provide their for this turn.
or
Step 3. Trigger abilities that happen at the start of the turn.
MaSitenp 4 .P Fhinaally,s deraw a card from either your spellbook atlas.
Sorcery
The main phase is where most of ’s actions and events take place. During this phase, your units
spellcaster
can be ordered to do two types of actions. They can:
• Cast a spell from your hand if they are a (see page 17) or,
• Activate one of their abilities (see page 20)
You may have your units do these as many times as you have resources to do so, and in any order you like.
EForn exdam pPle,h youa msigeht move a minion, then cast a spell with your Avatar, and then move another minion.
The end phase is the last phase you complete during your turn.
Step 1. Trigger abilities that happen at the end of the turn.
Step 2. Players remove all damage from their minions in the realm.
Step 3. Effects that last for your turn now end.
Note: Avatars do not heal automatically at the end of the turn in the same way as damage is removed from
Step 4. Your turn ends.
minions, however they can heal using spells and other card effects.
Your First Turn
No Card Draw (First Player)
Establishing Your Domain
If you are the first player to take a turn in the game, skip Step 4 of the Start Phase.
square
During your first Main Phase, your Avatar needs to establish their domain within the realm. To do
this, you must use your Avatar’s ability to play a site to your Avatar’s .
- 16 -

[Page 17]
Casting Spells
Spellcasters realm
Spells are the main way Avatars and other influence the . Any card in your hand that is
Spellcaster
not a site is a spell. You cast these spells to summon minions, conjure artifacts or auras, and invoke magics.
Spellcaster location
TSop eclalcsat sat esrpell from your hand, you need to identify a mana under eyloeumr ecnotnatlr othl rteos chaosltd it. The
and its are by whom and where the spell is being cast. Once you have identified the
Mana
, spells often have two requirements to play: a cost and an .
Spellcasters
All of your use mana to cast their spells and some abilities may also draw from this power.
YGoaui ncainn ogn Mly agnaian mana during your turn and lose any unspent mana at the end of your turn.
At the start of your turn, all of your sites provide one mana each, forming a mana pool for you to draw from.
When one of your sites enters the realm, it immediately provides one mana. If you lose a site, the mana it
provided this turn is not removed from your mana pool. If you gain control of an enemy’s site during your
turn, it does not provide you with mana until your next turn.
Other card types might also provide mana turn-after-turn in a manner similar to sites, or simply increase
yUosuirn pgo oMl faonr athe current turn.
Spells cost mana to cast. This is identified by the card’s mana cost in the upper left hand corner. To cast that
spell, you must be able to pay the cost from your available mana. You cannot pay a mana cost if the amount
required exceeds the mana available.
For example, your sites each
provide one mana that you
2
can spend this turn .
Currently, that number
is three. Note that your
opponent’s Aqueduct
does not provide you mana
. In your hand , you
have some minions and a site. 1
You could play both the Sedge 3
Crabs and Polar Explorers as
their total mana cost is three.
You don’t currently have enough mana to play Captain
1
Baldassare with his mana cost of four. However, you do
have a site, Maelström, that you can play using your Avatar’s 1
ability . Playing Maelström would bring your total
available mana up to four, allowing you to play Captain
Baldassare, saving the Crabs and Explorers for a later turn. 4
- 17 -

[Page 18]
Elemental Threshold
mana
In addition to , you will often need tmo amneaet an elemental threshold to cast most spells or use
some abilities. Spells and some abilities will have one or more elemental symbols ( for fire, for air,
for water, and for earth) next to the cost on spells, or to the left of abilities in text boxes.
To play that card or use that ability, you must have at least as many matching symbols on the sites you
mana
control, plus any others granted by spells or abilities.
Elemental threshold is not spent like . It is simply a minimum affinity you must have for the
specified elements to use some cards. All artifacts and most abilities have no threshold at all, so you
neFeodr oenxalym tpol ee,n ysouurre F tlhoaotd ypolaui nc,a n pay any associated costs to make use of them.
Autumn River, and Maelström
sites each grant you one
affinity , however Boneyard 3
does not . So your affinity is
currently three . Note that
your opponent’s Aqueduct does
not grant you affinity .
In your hand , you have
some minions, including Adept 1 1
4
Illusionist and Polar Explorers,
both of which you want to play this turn.
Because elemental affinity is not spent or lost when
playing cards, you just need to check each card’s
elemental threshold and see if your affinity is equal to or
greater than the threshold. This means that you can play
1
both the Illusionist and Explorers this turn since they each
only require a threshold of two , compared to your
2
affinity of three .
Mulitiple Element Threshold
Some spells might require affinity with
different elements. Like with other spells, you
must be able to meet all of a spell’s required
threshold in order to cast it. So for example, to
cast Sir Pelleas, you’ll need to control sites with
at least one Air and two Water threshold symbols.
Cards that have different element symbols
count as a spell of each of those affinities. So Sir
Pelleas is both an Air spell and a Water spell at
the same time.
- 18 -

[Page 19]
Casting Minions
realm
When a minion spell has been cast, it summons the minion under your control atop any of your sites,
Note: There is no limit to the number of minions that may occupy the same site, though it’s rarely a good
and they remain in the until something causes them to leave play.
idea to concentrate your forces in just one spot!
Summoning Sickness
A minion that entered the realm this turn, whether from being cast or from another card’s effect,
suffers from summoning sickness until the end of turn as it prepares for battle. A minion suffering from
summoning sickness cannot tap, or be tapped, to pay for costs associated with any ability. This includes
Note: When you summon a minion on your turn, it enters play untapped, so you may use it to defend on
any additional abilities that may have been granted by spells and artifacts.
your opponent’s turn.
Casting Artifacts
realm
When an artifact spell is cast, it is conjured into the atop any site you control or directly into the
Casting Auras
waiting hands of one of your units. A unit can carry any number of artifacts.
squares
square
When saqnu aaurreas spell is cast, it cvoonijdures the aura at the intersection of four , though some specify
the border between two, or even just a single . Auras are said to occupy the surface of any sites at
Casting Magics
those , as well as any , affecting them (or other things located at those sites) in some way.
realm
Magics are the only cards in the game that do not enter play when they are cast, and do not have a lasting
presence in the . A magic spell simply does what it says it does, and then goes to its owner’s cemetery.
- 19 -

[Page 20]
Activating Abilities
Avatars, minions, artifactms,a annad auras may all have abilities that can be activated simply by stating your
intention to do sloif, emaking any relevant choices (like picking targets), and paying any associated costs.
Unlike spells, which use costs most often, abilities will use a variety of costs including things like
tapping, paying , sacrificing a minion, or discarding cards, among other things. Only the controller
of a card can use its activated abilities, and only during the main phase of their own turn when nothing
Tapping a Card
else is already happening.
1
Cards in the realm can be tapped as a resource,
spending their energy as a cost to activate various
abilities. Tap abilities are usually written as,
“Tap → Ability text.”
A player may also need to tap a card as a cost
related to other spells or abilities on other cards.
To tap a card, turn it 90° to the right from its
upright position . A card that has been turned
90° in this way is “tapped,” while an upright card is
“untapped.” Cards can also untap at certain points
in the game. To do that, simply turn it 90° to the
Note: Players can only tap untapped cards and
2
left back into its upright position .
untap tapped cards.
Reminder: Minions that you have summoned this
turn have Summoning Sickness and cannot be
tapped to pay for the costs of abilities.
Playing Sites
Sites come into play through your Avatar’s activated ability: “Tap → Play or draw a site” . However,
there are some other cards that can bring them into play as well.
void rubble
When you play a site, it must be placed:
• on or , and
• adjacent to another site that you control or as close as possible to your Avatar if you control
square void
no sites.
realm
There can rounblyb blee one site per grid , which means sites are generally placed on an adjacent ,
permanently extending the physical boundaries of your domain within the . Sites can also be
played on , replacing it entirely.
1 2
4 3
- 20 -

[Page 21]
Basic Abilities
All units (Avatars and minions) have access to five basic abilities that are not printed on their card.
Three are activated abilities that allow them to interact with the realm. These are: Move and Attack,
which is the ability you’ll use most often; Pick Up, and Drop, which both relate to carrying artifacts.
The remaining two are triggered abilities that units can perform during the opponent’s turn. These
aMboilivtiee sa anrde cAatllteadc Dkefend and Intercept, and are described below alongside their triggers.
Every unit can tap to activate the Move and Attack ability, which allows it to optionally move, then
optionally attack something at its location. When using this ability, declare the intended movement path
Moving your Units
and resolve it. After resolving all the movement, then decide if you attack at that location (see page 22).
steps
When moving a unit, its journey is broken down into individual regio. nBsy default, units can move one
step. However, some abilities allow units to take additional steps (such as Movement +X) and other
abilities allow units to take steps diagonally or even into different (see page 13).
To move a unit using the Move and Attack ability, you first declare each step the unit will take, and then
you resolve the steps in order. When you declare movement, the only restriction is that you may not
repeat specific steps.
Normally, this means that you will simply declare a single step, from the surface of one site to the surface
of an adjacent site.
For example, your Amazon Warriors
1
have tapped to use their Move and
Attack ability and you declare a
step from the surface of the Rustic
Village to the surface of the Holy
Ground .
2
If your units have movement-enhancing abilities, or there are movement modifying effects in play, you
might choose to declare a more complex path. As you resolve each step, you confirm that it is a legal step
at that moment. If it is not legal, you do not take that step, and continue resolving anything remaining.
If your unit takes at least one step, it has moved; if it takes zero steps, it has not moved.
“Take a Step” verses “X Steps Away”
If an effect instructs a unit to take a step or move one step, the unit may modify its step via abilities like
Airborne, Voidwalk, Burrowing, and Submerge.
If a card instructs you to pick a target up to X steps away, you cannot apply movement abilities; you
simply count one adjacent square per step, without changing regions.
- 21 -

[Page 22]
Attacking the Enemy
You may only attack enemy units or the surface of enemy sites that are at your location. When using the
Move and Attack basic ability, you must resolve any movement before declaring and resolving your attack.
As you resolve the attack, you confirm it is a legal target at that moment, and if so, your unit has attacked.
Attacking
For example, the Amazon
Warriors tap to declare
2 a Move and Attack. The
Amazon Warriors first
declare and resolve their
movement . Once they’re
done moving, they have the
option to attack.
1
Attacking Enemy Units
fight fight strike
sIft ryiokue sattack an enemy unit, either as your original intent, or because your opponent defended (see
page 24), the units involved will . To , units each other simultaneously. When a unit
, it deals damage equal to its power.
Fight and Strike
Carrying on from the example
above, the Amazon Warriors and
Rimland Nomads now fight, striking 3
each other simultaneously .
The Amazon Warriors deal five
damage to the Rimland Nomads
who deal two damage in return.
Striking First
Some units may be able to land their blows before their enemy can respond. Units that strike first resolve
their strikes before their target can resolve theirs. If multiple units in the same fight are able to strike
Multiple Combatants
first, they all strike at the same time. Then any surviving units without that ability make their strikes.
If more than two units are involved in a fight (usually as a result of intercepting or defending), the
Mcoinntiroonllse rw oitf he aScphl isti dPeo wmeary allocate their units’ damage among the enemy as they wish.
Some minions have their Power split into an
offensive value, or Attack Power and a defensive
value, known as Defense Power. When it strikes, Attack Power is noted on
use the first one, and when damage is being the left over the sword,
allocated to them, use the second. and Defense Power is on
the right over the shield.
Cards that modify a unit’s Power do so to both
Attack and Defense Power, so for example
Overpower will increase both Attack and Defense
Power by two.
- 22 -

[Page 23]
Damage to Minions
Damage dealt to minions persists until the end of the turn. A minion that accumulates damage greater
Note:
than or equal to its power immediately dies and is placed in its owner’s cemetery.
Zero damage is not any damage at all, so units with 0 power must take at least 1 damage to die.
4 5
Continuing our attack example, the Amazon Warriors suffer two damage from the Rimland Nomads .
While this does not kill them, if they take three more damage this turn, they will die. On the other hand,
the Nomads suffer five damage , well exceeding its power of two and so it immediately dies .
Damage to Avatars
Throughout the game, you track your Avatar’s life. Damage dealt to an Avatar with one or more life
reduces their life by that amount. Damage dealt to an Avatar on death’s door causes a death blow (see
Attacking the Surface of an Enemy Site
page 11) and ends the game.
If you attdaecka tthh eb lsouwrface of an enemy site and your opponent doesn’t defend, simply strike the site,
damaging it and causing the controlling Avatar to lose that much life. Importantly, attacking a site cannot
deliver a because it causes the controlling Avatar to lose life, not take damage directly. You
can still attack the sites of an Avatar at death’s door, but it will not usually affect them.
For example, the Amazon
1 Warriors attack your
opponent’s undefended
Red Desert striking
it for 5 damage . Your
-5 3
opponent’s Avatar of Fire
2 then loses five life .
Remember: Losing life
like this is not damage.
- 23 -

[Page 24]
Defend
Defend is one of two basic abilities that you can use on your opponent’s turn, because it is a triggered
ability (the other is Intercept, described on page 25).
fight
When an enemy attacks another unit or site in your unit’s range of motion, your unit may tap to defend,
Airborne,
moving to the attack’s location and joining the . Any number of units may defend against an attacker.
Burrowing Movement +X,Submerge Voidwalk
During this movement a defending unit may use any of its movement abilities, such as
, , or .
fight
If the original target of the attack was a unit, the defender’s controller may decide if that unit remains in
Remember: Only “attacks” can be defended; attacks are only caused by the Move and Attack basic ability,
the , or is removed. If the original target was a site, it is automatically removed.
or very specific card text that uses the word “attack.”
1
2
In this example, let’s say that your Rimland Nomads are attacked by the Amazon Warriors again. But
this time you have an untapped Sand Worm at an adjacent site. You can then tap your Sand Worm
and move it to the location of the Rimland Nomads to defend them.
You can then decide to remove the Nomads from the ensuing fight. If they remain, they will be involved
in the battle and your opponent will be able to allocate damage to them. However this may be a good
idea since together the Sand Worm and Nomads can take down the Amazon Warriors. If you choose
to remove the Nomads, they cannot be allocated damage, but will leave the Sand Worm to take on the
Warriors alone.
- 24 -

[Page 25]
Intercept
Intercept is one of two basic abilities that you can use on your opponent’s turn, because it is a triggered
ability (the other ability is Defend, described on page 24).
fight
When an enemy using the Move and Attack ability finishes its movement and then chooses not to attack,
any of your units there may tap to intercept and that enemy.
Units can not move when they intercept. They must already be at the enemy’s location.
Intercept
1 For example, your opponent’s
Seasoned Sellsword minion has
tapped to use its Move and
Attack ability, moving to the
Rustic Village and then choosing
not to attack. Now the untapped
Amazon Warriors can intercept,
forcing the Seasoned Sellsword
into a fight .
2
Pick Up or Drop Artifacts
Each unit can activate their Pick Up basic ability once per turn, which allows it to pick up any number of
target artifacts at its location that are not currently being carried.
The Drop basic ability allows a unit to drop any number of artifacts it’s carrying. Each unit can activate
the Drop basic ability once per turn, as long as it hasn’t interacted with the realm this turn. See the
GClaorsrsayriyn fgo rA “rinttiefraacctts.”
A unit can carry any number of artifacts, which will move with the unit throughout the realm. If a unit
is carrying any artifacts when it leaves the realm, the artifacts are dropped. If a unit and an artifact it is
cCaornrytirnog lsltionpg s Aharrtiinfga ac tloscation due to some effect, the artifact ceases to be carried.
Artifacts carried by a unit are controlled by the player who controls that unit. Artifacts that could be
carried but are not currently being carried are uncontrolled. Artifacts that cannot be carried normally
(e.g. Automatons and Monuments) are controlled by the player who conjured them.
- 25 -

[Page 26]
Building Your Own Decks
Sorcery: Contested Realm
is a customizable trading card game, which means that you can choose what
cards go into your deck. When you’re ready to construct your own deck, there are a few rules you must
follow to build decks fit for play:
• You need to choose and include exactly one Avatar
card.
• Your Atlas must contain at least 30 site cards.
• Your Spellbook must contain at least 60 spell cards.
You may have larger decks as long as you can reasonably
Rshuaffler thietm.y
The type line of a spell or site describes the card’s
rarity . This tells you how many copies of that 1
card you can have in your deck. Each player may
four ordinary
include:
three exceptional
• up to copies of any cards
two elite
• up to copies of any cards
one unique
• up to copies of any cards
• only copy of any cards in a deck
Your Avatar does not count toward any of those
totals, and is not in that sense a part of either of
your decks.
- 26 -

[Page 27]
Advanced Concepts
Special Abilities
Sorcery
Most cards in have one or more special abilities printed in their game text box that change the
d
P
ef
a
a
s
u
s
lt
i v
ru
e
l e
A
s
b
o
i
f
l
t
i
h
t
e
y
game or grant new interactions ouKtseidyew oof trhde Ababsiicli atbyilities.
A passive ability has an ongoing effect that A keyword is a word or phrase that functions as
is alrweaaylsm active, as long as the card is in the shorthand for a longer piece of rules text. They
relevant game zone. Typically, this zone will be are used to communicate concepts that require
the , but some cards have abilities that more text than what will fit on a card. You can
specify things they do, or enable you to do, while find these longer explanations in the glossary on
in your hand, or while in the cemetery, etc. page 32.
Activated Ability Triggered Ability
An activated ability takes effect simplym bya sntaating A triggered ability requires that a specified
your intention to do so and paying any related condition is met, or a specified event occurs, to
costs, such as tapping or spending . By automatically take effect. These abilities can be
default, only the controller of a card can use recognized by their use of words such as “when,”
its activated abilities, and only during the main “whenever,” and “at [a specified moment],”
phase of their own turn, when nothing else is though a few cards have nonstandard wording
already happening. due to space constraints.
- 27 -

[Page 28]
Advanced Movement Concepts
Entering a Location, Site, or Void
A unit is said to have entered a location, site, or a void if it was not occupying that particular spot, and
now it is (even if just for a moment as a result of Movement +X, for example), or when it was summoned
Teleporting
or conjured there.
Moving Freely
Teleportation effects move a unit directly to a specified location without taking any steps in between.
Some cards can move freely within the realm or in a defined area. When a unit uses the Move and Attack
or Defend abilities they spend no steps when moving, as long as the starting and ending locations of the
Special Movement Effects
step satisfy the moves freely condition.
Airborne, Burrowing, Submerge, or Voidwalk
Some effects will push, pull, or drag things, or simply cause them to be moved. This is forced movement,
and is not modified by a unit’s abilities, such as . Units
that cannot move by activating their own abilities, can still be moved by other cards and effects.
If an effect causes a unit to ‘take a step’ or ‘take up to X steps’ this is not forced movement, and the unit
can modify these steps with their abilities. Units that cannot move by activating their own abilities, also
Note: A unit that is made to move, either by a spell’s effect or is otherwise forcibly moved does not tap and
cannot carry out any steps granted by these effects.
cannot be intercepted, as it is not moving as part of the Move and Attack basic ability.
When Sites Move
square
If a site moves to another , everything atop and usnqduear riet
moves with it (howeverv, otihdose cards are not considered to have
moved). Generally, a site can only move or be moved to a
without another site – a . Any cards in that void are now placed
Carrying Units
atop the site that was moved in.
Some units can carry other unitsA. iAr buonritn we,i tBhu trhriso wabiinligty, ,S puicbkms ethregme,
up Voor iddrwopaslk them in the same manner and time as it would artifacts
(see page 25). Units that have
or confer those abilities to units they are carrying while
they are carried.
A unit being carried may still cast spells or activate abilities as normal.
If the carried unit moves to a location that the carrying unit doesn’t
occupy, the unit ceases to be carried.
- 28 -

[Page 29]
Damage Grids
Some cards have abilities that deal damage or otherwise affect units
or multiple sites over a wide area. To simplify rules text and illustrate
the extent of these spells, some cards contain a damage grid in their
rules box.
Spellcaster’slocation
Damage grids may use a bold square to indicate the center of the
card’s effect, or a dot to show the on the grid.
locations
Breyg dioenfault, a damage grid indicates that the ability deals damage to
each unit at within the area of effect and within the same
Occ, uthopugyh cianrdsg m aMy spuecilfyt otihperwlisee. Sites
realm
Units normally occupy only one location while in the ,
however some units may occupy multiple locations at once due to
their enormous size. Such oversized units follow the regular rules
for summoning, so you choose a single site you control when you
cast the minion spell. As they enter the realm, you choose a 2x2
area that it can legally occupy, which must include the summoning
location. To represent the minion’s locations, place the card at the
intersection of those sites.
An oversized unit is at each of the sites (or void squares) that it
occupies, so it can be standing on both landd aanmda gweater sites (or
void squaredsa) mata tghee same time. Therefore, if grid damage is dealt to
multiple such locations, oversized units take equal to the
sum of the dealt on all of the locations they occupy.
The same applies in general for any effect that checks whether
something is true about an oversized unit’s site.
When an oversized unit moves, you choose a direction and all parts
of it move in that direction. If any part of it can’t move in the chosen
direction, then it can’t move in that direction at all.
Teleporting Oversized Units
When attacking, oversized units still target only a single enemy or site.
location locations
When an oversized unit is teleported, it must be to a or set of that conforms to its
size restrictions and is otherwise legal for that unit to occupy.
- 29 -

[Page 30]
Ownership and Control
Sorcery
You have ownership of all of the cards you bring to a game of . You are, therefore, the owner
of those cards. The owner of a card does not change during the game. A card is always returned to its
owner’s hand, shuffled into its owner’s deck, or sent to its owner’s cemetery regardless of who controls
the card when it leaves play.
While the owner of a card is most often its controller, control of cards in play may change over the
course of a game. When rules text uses phrases like “your minions” or “your sites,” that refers to those
Pthinrgso thjate ycout coinltroel, asnd not to those things that you own.
region cardinal direction
A projectile’s flight begins at the shooting unit’s location
and travels within the same e inne am y ally .
Its flight continues until it either reaches the edge of its
region or it reaches the first unit ( or ) along its
path, ignoring any allies at the projectile’s starting location.
Different projectiles will have different effects, but will most
often deal damage to the impacted unit.
In the event of multiple valid units, the player that fired the
Cardinal directions from the card
projectile chooses which unit the projectile hits.
2
1
3
1
1
1 4
For example, your Lava Salamander casts a Firebolts spell to the right towards the opponent’s House
Arn Bannerman . Each of the three projectiles travel in the chosen cardinal direction, starting at
the Salamander’s location and travelling over the Arid Desert, avoiding the burrowed Cave Trolls,
which are not in the same region . When they arrive at the Rustic Village, you can have the first
two projectiles hit the Bannerman, which suffers two damage and dies . Unfortunately, the third
projectile then hits your own Seasoned Sellsword , since projectiles hit friend and foe alike!
Static/Ongoing Effects
Auras and minions with passive abilites will have an ongoing impact on the realm. These static effects
should be applied at all times, even while resolving other effects or actions, and take precedence over
triggered abilities.
- 30 -

[Page 31]
The Storyline
Sorcery
When the story being told during a game of starts to get complicated, particularly when multiple
abilities trigger at the same time, you can use the Storyline to help resolve them.
A Storyline begins each time a unit casts a spell or activates an ability at which point one or more
events are placed at the relevant points on the Storyline and are then resolved in order, one at a time.
Sometimes, the resolution of a spell, effect, or event will cause it to split into several smaller events (eg.
the individual steps within a unit’s movement), which are each placed on the Storyline at their relevant
points before the Storyline continues to play out.
Target units or locations must be chosen as an event is being added to the Storyline, otherwise an event
only needs more detail when it comes time to resolve it.
For example, your Ghost Ship taps 1
to use the Move and Attack ability
, adding it to the Storyline. As
the ability resolves, you declare
and resolve their movement.
After movement, you decide to
Ghost Ship Move & Attack
attack the Autumn River .
Ghost Ship Ghost Ship
2
moves: void 13 attacks:
to surface 12 Autumn River
Triggered Abilities
at the current moment
If the resolution of one event triggers an ability, a new event will be inserted into the storyline. The new
event is added , temporarily interrupting any remaining events on the Storyline.
Once this new event has been resolved, the story will continue.
If multiple events are competing to be added at the same point on the Storyline, the non-active player
places their events first, then the active player places their events on the Storyline after them. If either
player has multiple events of their own, they can place them in whatever order they wish.
Your Ghost Ship’s movement has
resolved , triggering both its
4 4
summon ability and the hunting
3
instincts of the opponent’s Giant
Shark .
As the non-active player, your
opponent places their ability on
the storyline first .
3 Giant Shark Giant Shark Ghost Ship
Ghost Ship moves: surface fights: summons a Ghost Ship
moves: void 13 11 to 12 Ghost Ship spirit attacks:
5
to surface 12
If a card leaves the realm, any of its events stay on the Storyline but are unable to resolve. If any event is
unable to resolve when it comes up, simply ignore it and continue to the next event.
- 31 -

[Page 32]
Glossary of Terms and Keywords
Adjacent
same manner and time as it would artifacts (see
Refers to the card’s own square, and the squares page 25). Units that have Airborne, Burrowing,
tAhiartb ito srhnarees a border with. Submerge, or Voidwalk confer those abilities to
units they are carrying while they are carried.
A unit being carried may still cast spells or activate
This unit may fly while on the surface, gaining the abilities as normal. If the carried unit moves to a
following benefits: location that the carrying unit doesn’t occupy, the
WhenA tiarkbionrgn ae step this unit may move diagonally uCnhiat cregaeses to be carried.
and can only be intercepted by other units if they
have or Ranged.
Airborne
This unit can tap, or be tapped, to pay for costs
This unit cannot be targeted by attacks, unless the
associated with any ability on the turn it is
aAtltlayc/kiAnlgl iuendit has the ability.
sCuomllmeocntieodn.
AB aunniits thhat you control (including your Avatar).
Your collection consists of cards you own that
didn’t start the game in your decks. When a card
RBeomdoyv eo ffr Woma ttheer game. is added from your collection, it persists across all
game zones.
water sites
In tournaments, it is recommended to play with a
AB rcoonkteignuous cluster of adjacent . 10-card collection that adheres to rarity rules in
cCoomnbjiunraetion with your Spellbook and Atlas.
Broken cards are artifacts that can be found in any
c[Xem]betoeuryn.d WDahmena ag cea radn isd c Lonifjeur Ledo,s psut it directly into play.
disabled
location
This minion is disab lwedhile not occupying a Generally, units take damage from fighting and
cewrtaatienr tlyopcea toiof n . For example, a minion from the effects of spells and abilities. Damage
with Waterbound is while not occupying dealt to minions accumulates until the end of turn
aB urrow ing , etc. when it is healed, while damage dealt to an Avatar
causes them to lose life instead. Sometimes an
underground Avatar will suffer life loss directly from things like
Thsitse upnit can be safely summoned to, exist in, and
a site being damaged.
olapnedra stiet en orma lulyn derground . When taking
When a minion has damage on it equal to or greater
a , it can instead move from the surface of a Note: When an Avatar is at death’s door, only
than its power, it dies.
to the level there, or vice damage will deliver a death blow.
vCearnsa’t. Be Modified
Dead
This card can’t be disabled, silenced, immobilized,
Dead cards are minions that can be found in any
or transformed, can’t gain or lose abilities, and its
Cardinal Directions cDeemaetther By.low
characteristics (like power) can’t be changed.
death’s door
When a card talks about a cardinal direction, it When an Avatar is at , any damage
includes all of the squares in the direction indicated dDeeaaltt tho’ tsh eDmo iosr a death blow, signaling their defeat.
oCna rthrey cianrgd Uton tihtes front, rear, left and right. life
life
When an Avatar’s is reduced to 0, they are now
Some units can carry other units. A unit with at death’s door and can no longer gain . At that
this ability, picks them up or drops them in the moment, the Avatar becomes immune to damage
- 32 -

[Page 33]
Exceptional
damage
for the resdt eoaft hth bel ocwurrent turn. After that brief
and desperate window, any dealt to the You may include three copies of a card that has the
ADveaatatrh irs iat e , ending the game. kFeiygwhotrd “Exceptional” in its type line.
dies strike
When this unit , do what is stated before placing When two units fight, they each other
iDt iine tsh, eD ceemsterteoryy.ed, & Killed
simultaneously.
If more than two units are involved in a fight, the
controller of each side may allocate their units’
When a card dies, is destroyed, or is killed place it in
dFalomoadgee admong the enemy as they wish.
tDhies caebmleetery.
A flooded site haws aat merin siimteu.m of one water affinity
While disabled, a minion loses all abilities
, in addition to any other affinities it provides.
(including basic abilities like Move and Attack),
GTheenreefsoirse, it’s a
doesn’t strike when fighting, can’t cast spells, and
can’t take any action granted by another card or
effect (ie. strike, shoot a projectile, take a step, etc.).
WGrhoeun nthdis M caordv eenmteerns tthe realm, do what is stated.
A disabled minion can still be forcibly moved or
tEalpepmede bnyt aeflf eAcftsfi.nity and Threshold
Ground movement is any step that a unit takes
between the surface of two sites (except Airborne
Sites and other cards provide elemental affinity aHnedr teel e&p oTrhtaetiroen).
(e.g. ). Elemental threshold is the
minimum affinity required to cast a given spell, or
Etol ittreigger or activate some abilities. “Here” and “There” refer to the location(s) that
a card occupies. For most cards, such as avatars,
minions, and artifacts, that means one location.
You may include two copies of a card that has the For most auras, it means the 2x2 area they occupy.
kEenyewmoryd “Elite” in its type line. For sites, it means two locations, their surface and
sImubmsurofabciel.e
A unit (including Avatars) that is controlled by an
oEpvpiolnent. TInhtise urnaict tcan’t take steps.
A minion is considered evil if it is a demon, undead, A unit interacts with the realm if it strikes, deals
or monster. Evil minions can’t be warded. damage, casts a spell, or activates a special ability.
- 33 -

[Page 34]
Lance
as the starting and ending locations of the step
Nearby
A minion with the Lance keyword enters play satisfy the moves freely condition.
carrying a lance artifact token. They could use it for
themselves or give it to another minion. The first
Refers to the card’s own square, and all squares
time a unit strikes while carrying a lance, it deals
tOhradt siunrarroyund it, including those diagonally.
an extra damage and strikes first (see page 22)
four
if in a fight. Then the lance breaks.
Lance tokens are artifacts for all intents and
You may include copies of a card that has the
purposes. They can be picked up and dropped Pkeryowjoercdt i“lOersdinary” in its type line.
(and stolen), just like other artifacts. When they
are broken, they are removed from the realm like
region
Lotahnerd t oSkiteenss. Aca rpdroinjeaclt dilier’es cftliioghnt begins at the shooting unit’s
water sites location and travels within the same in a
enemy all. yIts flight continues until it either
All sites that are not are considered
reaches the edge of its region or it reaches the first
land sites, including sites with no element icons
unit ( or ) along its path, ignoring any
aLnedt hRaublble.
allies at the projectile’s starting location. Different
projectiles will have different effects, but will most
often deal damage to the impacted unit.
Any strictly positive amount of damage this card
In the event of multiple valid units, the player
dLeifaels to a minion is enough to kill.
that fired the projectile chooses which unit the
pRraonjegcteilde hXits.
death’s
Ldiofeo rrepresents the amount of damage that your
Avatar can endure before it is placed on
This unit has “Tap → Shoot a projectile that stops
. As your Avatar incurs damage, its overall life
after 1 (or X) steps. Strike the impacted unit”.
wLoilcl daetciorenase accordingly.
TRhains ugnei to mf aMy oaltsioo inntercept Airborne units.
The exact location of a card is determined by its
sMquaanrae and by the region that it occupies. Every location a unit can reach if it used the Move
aRneda Almttack basic ability.
Mana can come from several sources, but sites are
The realm includes all the squares in the game
the most common. When they first come into play
zRoengei.on
as well as at the start of your turn, sites provide
one mana each. Other cards might add to this total.
You use this mana to cast spells or activate abilities.
There are four distinct regions in the realm:
At the end of your turn, any remaining mana is lost,
sRuurfbabcel,e underground, underwater, or in the void.
wMhoevtheemr oern nto +t Xyou used it that turn.
A site that has been dveostirdoyed is placed in its
This unit may move up tsot eXp sadditional steps
owner’s cemetery as normal, but rathlaern dthan
when using the Move and Attack or Defend basic
reverting back to the , the site is instead
abilities. Tsote mpove multiple at once, choose
replaced with rubble. Rubble is a neutral site
a destination and a path to it then traverse that
that no player controls, and provides no mana or
Note: Use Rubble tokens or a face down site to
path one at a time. You may need to resolve
threshold.
automatic triggers (or apply “always on” passive
represent rubble on a square.
abilities), some of which may prematurely stop the
Sacrifice
mMootvioens o Ff rtheee ulynit.
realm
Sacrificing is removing something you control
When this unit uses the Move and Attack or Defend
from the and placing it directly in its
abilities they spend no steps when moving, as long
- 34 -

[Page 35]
Stealth
owner’s cemetery. A player may be forced to
sdaiecrifice someDtehainthg riift easn effect instructs them to Minions with Stealth cannot be targeted by spells
do so. When a minion is sacrificed, it does indeed or abilities from your opponents (including
, and its trigger, if applicable. If attacks), they can’t be intercepted, their attacks
something is sacrificed to pay the cost of an ability, can’t be defended, and projectiles cannot hit them.
it is not placed in the cemetery until after that
dying Stealth is tracked with a stealth token, and it’s lost
ability has resolved.
after the minion interacts with the realm.
Ain destru cutnibitl ecannot be sacrificed. When a site Non-minions cannot have Stealth, but an Artifact
is sacrificed, it is replaced by rubble. Even
carried by a minion with Stealth gains the same
things can be sacrificed, if a cost
Sbetenepf its.
or effect otherwise informs you of the need to
sSaiclerinficcee something.
A step is the minimum unit of distance between
tSwtoo raydljainceen (t sloecea tpioangse. 31)
A card that is silenced loses all printed and granted
abilities.
ASvpaatanr so cfa Lnannotd be silenced. A sequence of events that is currently resolving. A
land sites unit that casts a spell, or activates an ability will
start a storyline and add events to it. Triggered
ASp coenlltcigausotuesr cluster of adjacent . abilities can insert events into a storyline during
iSttsr rieksoelution, interrupting future events.
This card may cast spells.
Some spellcasters may only cast spells that match ASt urnikit ed eFailrs sdtamage equal to its power.
a specific element. For example, Fire Spellcasters
may only cast spells that have a Fire threshold icon
(Smqaurakrede with ). Units that strike first resolve their strikes before
their target can resolve theirs. If multiple units in
realm
the same fight are able to strike first, they all strike
One grid square in the , that includes all at the same time. Then any surviving units without
cards present there. that ability make their strikes.
- 35 -

[Page 36]
Stronger, Strongest, Weaker, and
Weakest
a new turn of summoning sickness. If one card
transforms into another card, the original card is
rUenmdoeverdg rfrooumn tdhe game after the transformation.
Some effects compare the power of two units:
land site
• Stronger: Strictly more power than.
region
• Strongest: Strictly highest power. The lower level of a is part of the
• Weaker: Strictly less power than. uUnndderegrrwouantde r .
water site
• Weakest: Strictly lowest power.
region
In the case of ties, the active player chooses.
The lower level of a is part of the
When comparing a minion with split power, use uUnndieqruweater .
the average of the two power values, rounding
one
Sdouwbnm ife nregeeded.
You may include copy of a card that has the
underwater kUenywitosrd “Unique” in its type line.
Thsitse punit can be safely summoned to, exist in,
awnadt eorp seirtaete normuanllyd erwater . When taking
a , it can instead move from the surface of a Units are a collective term that includes Avatars
to the level there or vice aVnodi dminions.
vSeurmsa.m on
square region
locations
A bwaitnhioshute ad site is a part of theV vooiiddw alk .
WTahpenp ian cgar ad iCsa srudm m(soenee dp, apgute i t2 d0ir)ectly into play. Avatars can never enter void . Minions
Vthoeirde warae lk unless they have .
void
Cards in the realm can be tapped as a cost to
activate various abilities. A player may also need This unit can be summoned to any location
to tap a card as a cost related to other spells or and vsoaifdely exist and operate there. When taking a
abilities on other cards. step it can move into an adjacent void, or out of
To tap a card, turn a it 90° to the right, from an the and onto the surface of an adjacent site
upright position. Only untapped cards and tokens (or directly to the subsurface if they can operate
in play can be tapped. All of your cards in play
tWheartee).r Sites
automatically (and necessarily) untap at the start
oTfa yroguer tturn. land sites
Water sites are identified by the water icon marked
with . All other sites are considered ,
Sometimes ySopue lwlcialls nteere’ds to target things in the iWncalurdding sites with no threshold icons and rubble.
realm. Spells and abilities can only target things
within the or referencing card’s
sTarmaen rsefgoiornm. If a warded site or unit would be damaged,
destroyed, or targeted by an opponent’s spell or
special ability, the Ward breaks instead.
When a card is transformed it is considered the A unit or site can’t have multiple Wards, and Evil
same game object as its previous version. It is minions can’t be warded.
controlled by the same player and does not suffer
- 36 -

[Page 37]
Sorcery: Contested Realm
QQuuiicckk RReeffeerreennccee GGuuiiddee
The Golden Rule Navigation Terms
Regions:
Some text is intentionally informal or necessarily Surface, Underground, Underwater, and
Location:
compact. Use common sense and be cool. the Void are all separate regions in the game.
The Four Elements
The exact location of a card is
determined by its square and by the region that
Sorcery: Contested Realm
it occupies.
is built around the four Here & There: “Here” and “There” refer to the
classical elements: location(s) that a card occupies. For most cards,
Air Earth Fire Water such as avatars, minions, and artifacts, that
means one location. For most auras, it means
the 2x2 area they occupy. For sites, it means two
Turn Sequence locations, their surface and subsurface.
Spellcaster’s
Target: Spells and abilities can only target things
Start Phase within the or referencing card’s
Adjacent:
same region.
Step 1:
Refers to the card’s own square and
Step 2: Nearby:
Untap all of your cards in the realm. the squares that it shares a border with.
Step 3:
All of your sites provide their mana. Refers to the card’s own square and
Trigger abilities that happen at the all squares that surround it, including those
Step 4:
start of the turn. diagonally.
End the Start Phase by drawing a card
Mfroamin ei tPhehr ayosuer spellbook or atlas.
Your units can cast spells and activate their
abilities. You may take these actions as many
times as you have resources to do so, and in any
Adjacent Nearby
oErndedr y Pouh liakes. e
Step 1:
Adjacent & Nearby Locations:
Trigger abilities that happen at the end
Step 2: Only locations
of the turn.
that are in the same region as the referencing
Players remove all damage from their
Step 3: card (or its spellcaster) are considered adjacent
Steps:
minions in the realm.
or nearby locations.
Step 4:
Effects that last for your turn now end.
A step is the minimum unit of distance
Your turn ends. between two adjacent locations.
Remember
• If the text of a card contradicts the rulebook, the card text takes precedence (pg 5).
• If you are the first player, you do not draw a card on your first turn (pg 16).
• Cards and abilities add events to the Storyline (pg 31). If multiple events compete to be added
at the same moment, the non-active player’s events are added and resolved first, and then
the active player’s.
- 37 -

[Page 38]
Sorcery: Contested Realm
QQuuiicckk RReeffeerreennccee GGuuiiddee
Common Keyword Abilities
Many units have keyword abilities printed in their game text which have rules associated with them.
TAhire bmoorsnt ceommon of these keywords are listed belowM aosv weemll easn itn + thXe glossary (page 32).
This unit may fly while on the surface, gaining the This unit may mstoevpes up to X additional steps when
following benefits: using the Move and Attack or Defend abilitsiteesp. To
WhenA tiarkbionrgn ae step this unit may move diagonally move multiple at once, choose a destination
and can only be intercepted by other units if they and a path to it then traverse that path one at
have or Ranged. a time. You may need to resolve automatic triggers
Airborne
(or apply “always on” passive abilities), some of
This unit cannot be targeted by attacks, unless the
which may prematurely stop the motion of the
aBtutarcrkoinwg iunngit has the ability.
uRnaitn. g ed X
underground
Tstheips unit can be safely summoned to, elxainsdt isni,t aend
This unit has “Tap → Shoot a projectile that stops
operuanted enrogrrmouanllyd . When taking a
after 1 (or X) steps. Strike the impacted unit”.
, it can move from the surface of a to
Cthhea rge level there, or vice versa. TShpies lulncait smteayr also intercept Airborne units.
This unit can tap, or be tapped, to pay for costs SThteisa clatrhd may cast spells.
associated with any ability on the turn it is
sDuemamthonrietde.
Minions with Stealth cannot be targeted by spells
dies
or abilities from your opponents (including
When this unit , do what is stated before placing attacks), they can’t be intercepted, their attacks
iDt iins athbel ceemetery. can’t be defended, and projectiles cannot hit them.
Stealth is tracked with a stealth token, and it’s lost
after the minion interacts with the realm.
While disabled, a minion loses all abilities
Non-minions cannot have Stealth, but an Artifact
(including basic abilities like Move and Attack),
carried by a minion with Stealth gains the same
doesn’t strike when fighting, can’t cast spells, and
Sbeunbemfitse.rge
can’t take any action granted by another card or
effect (ie. strike, shoot a projectile, take a step, etc.).
step
A disabled minion can still be forcibly moved or This unit can be safely summonedw taot,e erx sisitte in, and
tGaepnpeeds bisy effects uopnedreartew naotermr ally underwater. When taking a ,
realm it can move from the surface of a to the
Voidwalk level there, or vice versa.
WImhmeno thbiisl ceard enters the , do what is stated.
void
This unit can be summoned to any location
TLheitsh uanlit can’t take steps.
and vsoaifdely exist and operate there. When taking a
step it can move into an adjacent void, or out of
the and onto the surface of an adjacent site
Any strictly positive amount of damage this card
(or directly to the subsurface if they can operate
deals to a minion is enough to kill.
there).
- 38 -